Replace CI/Zuul references with manual commands in HSM adoption docs (#1392)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/modules/proc_adopting-key-manager-service-with-proteccio-hsm.adoc

= Adopting the {key_manager} with Proteccio HSM integration

[role="_abstract"]
To adopt the {key_manager_first_ref} with Proteccio hardware security module (HSM) integration, you patch an existing `OpenStackControlPlane` custom resource (CR) where {key_manager} is disabled. The patch starts the service with the configuration parameters from the {rhos_prev_long} ({OpenStackShort}) environment and preserves access to existing HSM-backed secrets. You configure the {key_manager} to use both the `simple_crypto` and `pkcs11` back ends.

The {key_manager} Proteccio HSM adoption is complete if you see the following results:

* The `BarbicanAPI`, `BarbicanWorker`, and `BarbicanKeystoneListener` services are up and running with HSM-enabled configuration.
* All secrets from the source {OpenStackShort} {rhos_prev_ver} environment are available in {rhos_long} {rhos_curr_ver}.
* The PKCS11 crypto plugin is available alongside `simple_crypto` for new secret storage.
* HSM functionality is verified and operational.

[NOTE]

> If your environment does not include Proteccio HSM, to adopt the {key_manager} by using `simple_crypto` only, see xref:adopting-the-key-manager-service_{context}[Adopting the {key_manager}].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your environment does not include Proteccio HSM, to adopt the {key_manager} by using `simple_crypto` only, see xref:adopting-the-key-manager-service_adopt-control-plane[Adopting the {key_manager}].
```

.Prerequisites

* You have a running {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} environment with Proteccio HSM integration (the source cloud).
* You have a Single Node OpenShift or OpenShift Local running in the {rhocp_long} cluster.
* You have SSH access to the source {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} undercloud and Controller nodes.
* Custom {key_manager} container images with the Proteccio client libraries are built and available in your container registry. For more information, see the `rhoso_proteccio_hsm` Ansible role documentation.
* The Proteccio client certificate, client key, server certificate, and `proteccio.rc` configuration file for the target environment are available on the host where you run the adoption commands.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Without proper HSM configuration, your HSM-protected secrets become inaccessible after adoption. Ensure the following before you begin:

* The HSM partition name, MKEK label, and HMAC label match the values configured in your source environment.

> * The Proteccio client certificates and configuration files are valid for the target environment.

Reviewer: You could add "...source environment (RHOSP)" and "...target environment (RHOSO)" to be more explicit.

Author: Agreed. Updated to include ({OpenStackShort}) and ({rhos_acro}) explicitly in the latest push.

====

.Procedure

. Confirm that your source environment configuration includes Proteccio HSM integration:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ ssh tripleo-admin@controller-0.ctlplane \
  "sudo cat /var/lib/config-data/puppet-generated/barbican/etc/barbican/barbican.conf | grep -A5 '\[p11_crypto_plugin\]'"
----
+

> If you see the `[p11_crypto_plugin]` section with Proteccio-specific settings, for example `library_path = /usr/lib64/libnethsm.so`, continue with the HSM adoption.

Reviewer: What if the customer doesn't see the settings?

Author: Added guidance directing the user to the standard adoption procedure if the `[p11_crypto_plugin]` section is not found.

+
----
$ oc set data secret/osp-secret "BarbicanSimpleCryptoKEK=$($CONTROLLER1_SSH "python3 -c \"import configparser; c = configparser.ConfigParser(); c.read('/var/lib/config-data/puppet-generated/barbican/etc/barbican/barbican.conf'); print(c['simple_crypto_plugin']['kek'])\"")"
----

. Create the HSM login credentials secret:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc create secret generic hsm-login \
  --from-literal=PKCS11Pin=<your_hsm_password> \
  -n openstack
----
+
where:

`<your_hsm_password>`::
Specifies the HSM PKCS#11 PIN for the Proteccio partition in your environment.

. Create the Proteccio client data secret with the certificates and configuration:
+
[source,bash]
----
$ oc create secret generic proteccio-data \
  --from-file=client.crt=<path_to_client_cert> \
  --from-file=client.key=<path_to_client_key> \
  --from-file=<hsm_server_cert_filename>=<path_to_server_cert> \
  --from-file=proteccio.rc=<path_to_hsm_config> \
  -n openstack
----
+
where:

`<path_to_client_cert>`::
Specifies the path to the HSM client certificate file.
`<path_to_client_key>`::
Specifies the path to the HSM client key file.
`<hsm_server_cert_filename>`::

> Specifies the filename of the HSM server certificate as expected by the Proteccio client, for example, `10_8_60_93.CRT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the filename of the HSM server certificate that is expected by the Proteccio client, for example, `10_8_60_93.CRT`.
```
